source/_bootcamp/native-setup.md, before:

---
extends: _layouts.bootcamp
title: Hotwire Native Installation
description: Hotwire Native Installation
order: 9
---

# *08.* Hotwire Native Android Setup

Hotwire offers mobile native adapters to help building high-fidelity hybrid apps with native navigation and a single shared web view.

You'll need a little bit of mobile development knowledge, specifically for Android and Kotlin. Not that much, though, because to be honest I'm no mobile dev expert myself.

This guide isn't about "the best way to build Hotwire Native apps". The idea is just to show you what's possible and how it integrates with Turbo.js and Turbo Laravel.

We're gonna focus on the [Hotwire Native for Android](https://github.com/hotwired/hotwire-native-android/) lib. I feel like [Hotwire Native for iOS](https://github.com/hotwired/hotwire-native-ios/) has a lot more attention, so I want to focus on Android for a bit. It's also the platform I am more familiar with, to be honest.

In Android development, each screen used to be its own Activity, but that has changed over the years and now the "Single Activity" approach seems to be the way to go. Watch this talk called ["Single activity: why, when, and how"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2k8x8V77CrU). In short, we're gonna have a single activity and each screen will be represented by a Fragment and we'll use Google's [Navigation component library](https://developer.android.com/guide/navigation) to decide which fragment to present.

Head over to the [Overview section in the docs for Hotwire Native](https://native.hotwired.dev/overview/how-it-works).

Let's setup the Android app.

## Setting Up The Local Development

To get started, you will need Java, Kotlin, and Android Studio installed locally. We're not gonna cover installing those things, but you should be able to find many resources on that.

I'm using ASDF, so here's some links:

* ASDF itself: https://asdf-vm.com/
* ASDF Java: https://github.com/halcyon/asdf-java
* ASDF Kotlin: https://github.com/asdf-community/asdf-kotlin
* Android Studio: https://developer.android.com/studio

Get those installed first, and then we'll create the project.

## Setting Up The Project

When creating the project, make sure you choose the "Empty Activity" option.

![Empty Compose Activity](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-empty-activity.png)

On the next screen, make sure you choose the "API 24" as that's required by the Turbo Native adapter.

![API 24](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-api-24.png)

Next, you're going to need to create a [Virtual Device](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/managing-avds), next to the "run" icon (the green right-arrow in toolbar at the top), there's a dropdown with the "Device Manager" option. Click on it. In the sidebar that opens, click on the "Create Device" option. Choose whatever device you want to emulate, I'll go with a Pixel 2.

![Choose Device](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-choose-device.png)

For the System image, I'm choose API level 30, which is Android R.

![System Image](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-system-image.png)

Now, you should see the option to run the app on the device emulator! Pressing on that, you should the app is running!

![App running](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-running-app.png)

Let's install Turbo Native.

## Installing Turbo Native

Now, let's add the Turbo lib. On the left sidebar, there's a "Gradle Scripts" section dropdown. Open it. In there, you should see 2 files named `build.gradle`, one for the project and one for the module. Open the module one. On it, scroll to the bottom where your dependencies are listed and add the Turbo Native one:

```
dependencies {
    def lifecycle_version = '2.5.1' // Add this

    implementation 'androidx.core:core-ktx:1.9.0'
    implementation 'androidx.appcompat:appcompat:1.5.1'
    implementation 'com.google.android.material:material:1.6.1'
    implementation 'androidx.constraintlayout:constraintlayout:2.1.4'

    // Add this section:
    implementation 'dev.hotwire:turbo:7.0.0-rc12'
    implementation "androidx.lifecycle:lifecycle-livedata-ktx:$lifecycle_version"
    implementation "androidx.lifecycle:lifecycle-viewmodel-ktx:$lifecycle_version"
    implementation "androidx.lifecycle:lifecycle-runtime-ktx:$lifecycle_version"

    testImplementation 'junit:junit:4.13.2'
    androidTestImplementation 'androidx.test.ext:junit:1.1.3'
    androidTestImplementation 'androidx.test.espresso:espresso-core:3.4.0'
}
```

Then, press on "Sync now" at the top of the file. Once that's done, you should have Turbo installed.

![Add Turbo](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-add-turbo.png)

## Configuring Turbo Native

So far, we have only added Turbo Native to the project, but we're not using it yet. Let's configure it.

We're following the official [Quick Start guide](https://native.hotwired.dev/android/getting-started) here.

Let's start by creating our `NavHostFragment`, which is a component available in Android Jetpack that provides a contained navigation area where our fragments will appear.

Before we start, let's create a `util` package where we're going to have a Constants Kotlin file. To do that, right-click on the root package and choosing the "New > Package" option. Then create the "util" package.

Inside of it, create the `Constants.kt` file with the following contents:

```js
package com.example.turbochirpernative.util

const val BASE_URL = "http://10.0.2.2"
const val CHIRPS_HOME_URL = "$BASE_URL/chirps"
```

We need to use something [10.0.2.2 instead of localhost](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator-networking) here or something like [Expose](https://expose.dev/) to get a remote URL that points to your app running locally.

Let's now create a package in our app called "main":

![The main package](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-main-package.png)

Now, create a Kotlin class called `MainSessionNavHostFragment`. This class will extend the `TurboSessionNavHostFragment` class that ships with Turbo, feel free to copy the body of the class (make sure the imports are correct and the package name too):

```kotlin
package com.example.turbochirpernative.main

import android.webkit.WebView
import androidx.appcompat.app.AppCompatActivity
import androidx.fragment.app.Fragment
import com.example.turbochirpernative.util.CHIRPS_HOME_URL
import dev.hotwire.turbo.BuildConfig
import dev.hotwire.turbo.config.TurboPathConfiguration
import dev.hotwire.turbo.session.TurboSessionNavHostFragment
import kotlin.reflect.KClass

class MainSessionNavHostFragment : TurboSessionNavHostFragment() {
    override val sessionName = "main"

    override val startLocation = CHIRPS_HOME_URL

    override val registeredActivities: List<KClass<out AppCompatActivity>>
        get() = listOf()

    override val registeredFragments: List<KClass<out Fragment>>
        get() = listOf(
            //
        )

    override val pathConfigurationLocation: TurboPathConfiguration.Location
        get() = TurboPathConfiguration.Location(
            assetFilePath = "json/configuration.json",
        )

    override fun onSessionCreated() {
        super.onSessionCreated()
        session.webView.settings.userAgentString = customUserAgent(session.webView)

        if (BuildConfig.DEBUG) {
            session.setDebugLoggingEnabled(true)
            WebView.setWebContentsDebuggingEnabled(true)
        }
    }

    private fun customUserAgent(webView: WebView): String {
        return "Turbo Native Android ${webView.settings.userAgentString}"
    }
}
```

There's a lot going on here, and this code doesn't even work yet. Let's go piece by piece.

1. The `startLocation` property should point to your app's default home page. In our case, it's the `/chirps` page. It could be the `/dashboard`, but we don't have anything there yet;
2. The `registeredActivities` method is only used when we have more than one activity in our app, which isn't our case, so we return an empty list;
3. The `registeredFragments` method will return a list of all fragments in our app to build the navigation graph. It's currently empty, but we'll use it in a bit;
4. The `pathConfigurationLocation` returns the location to the path configuration JSON files. This file will have some app specific configurations which can be used for things like feature toggles, but it's also going to have the navigation configuration where we're going to specify which fragments will be used based on the URL pattern (more on that later). Our app should must ship with a default `configuration.json` file, but we could also provide a remote URL for the file that we could control dynamically from our backend server;
5. We're also configuring the WebView to use the `Hotwire Native Android` User Agent header so we can detect in the backend that the request is coming from a Hotwire Native client (see more [here](/docs/hotwire-native))

Okay, now let's create our `configuration.json` file. Right-click on the project root named "app" and choose "New > Directory", then call it "assets/json". Then, right-click on the `json` directory we just created, and add a new file called `configuration.json` with the following contents:

![Assets directory](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-assets-folder.png)

```json
{
  "settings": {
    "screenshots_enabled": true
  },
  "rules": [
    {
      "patterns": [
        ".*"
      ],
      "properties": {
        "context": "default",
        "uri": "turbo://fragment/web",
        "pull_to_refresh_enabled": true
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

We only have one rule defined in this file right now. This is the "catch-all" rule, which will be applied to every navigation started by Turbo. By default, it will render the fragment configured as the `turbo://fragment/web` URI. Let's create that fragment and register it in our `MainSessionNavHostFragment`.

To create the fragment, let's first create a "features" package and then a "web" package inside of it. The "features" package will be where we keep our fragments and we can create sub packages for each subsystem we may have. For now, we only have one which we'll call "web".

Inside of the `features.web` package, create a Kotlin class named `WebFragment` with the following contents:

```kotlin
package com.example.turbochirpernative.features.web

import dev.hotwire.turbo.fragments.TurboWebFragment
import dev.hotwire.turbo.nav.TurboNavGraphDestination

@TurboNavGraphDestination(uri = "turbo://fragment/web")
class WebFragment: TurboWebFragment() {
}
```

Notice that we're annotating this class as the `turbo://fragment/web` URI using the `TurboNavGraphDestination` annotation. This matches our URI config for the catch-all rule in our `configuration.json` file.

Now, let's register this fragment in the `MainSessionNavHostFragment`:

```kotlin
package com.example.turbochirpernative.main

// ...

class MainSessionNavHostFragment : TurboSessionNavHostFragment() {
    override val registeredFragments: List<KClass<out Fragment>>
        get() = listOf(
            WebFragment::class // Add this
        )

    // ...
}
```

Next, we need to update our `MainActivity` to use the `MainSessionNavHostFragment` we have just created. But before we do that, let's do a refactor and also move it to the "main" package. You may have to do it twice for the refactoring to take effect.

![Move main activity to the main package](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-refactor-main-activity.png)

This activity class is referenced in the `AndroidManifest.xml` file, make sure you update the reference to also use the `.main` package. You can edit the manifest by clicking on the "app/manifests" section on your left sidebar. Since we're changing the manifest, let's also make sure we add the `INTERNET` permission to our app, otherwise we won't be able to make network requests.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools">

    <!-- Add this: -->
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />

    <application
        android:allowBackup="true"
        android:dataExtractionRules="@xml/data_extraction_rules"
        android:fullBackupContent="@xml/backup_rules"
        android:icon="@mipmap/ic_launcher"
        android:label="@string/app_name"
        android:roundIcon="@mipmap/ic_launcher_round"
        android:supportsRtl="true"
        android:theme="@style/Theme.TurboChirperNative"
        tools:targetApi="31"
        android:usesCleartextTraffic="true"> <!-- Allow "clear text" -->

        <activity
            android:name=".main.MainActivity"
            android:exported="true"
            android:label="@string/app_name"
            android:theme="@style/Theme.TurboChirperNative">

            <intent-filter>
                <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />

                <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
            </intent-filter>

            <meta-data
                android:name="android.app.lib_name"
                android:value="" />
        </activity>
    </application>
</manifest>
```

Now, let's update our `activity_main.xml` layout file. Update it to match this content:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<androidx.constraintlayout.widget.ConstraintLayout
    xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="match_parent">

    <androidx.fragment.app.FragmentContainerView
        android:id="@+id/main_nav_host"
        android:name="com.example.turbochirpernative.main.MainSessionNavHostFragment"
        android:layout_width="match_parent"
        android:layout_height="match_parent"
        app:defaultNavHost="false" />

</androidx.constraintlayout.widget.ConstraintLayout>
```

Make sure the `android:name` property points to the full package namespace of your `MainSessionNavHostFragment`.

Next, update the `MainActivity` to match this:

```kotlin
package com.example.turbochirpernative.main

import android.os.Bundle
import com.example.turbochirpernative.R
import androidx.appcompat.app.AppCompatActivity
import dev.hotwire.turbo.activities.TurboActivity
import dev.hotwire.turbo.delegates.TurboActivityDelegate

class MainActivity : AppCompatActivity(), TurboActivity {
    override lateinit var delegate: TurboActivityDelegate

    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)
        setContentView(R.layout.activity_main)

        delegate = TurboActivityDelegate(this, R.id.main_nav_host)
    }
}
```

Now, if you run the app, you should see that we have successfully wrapped our web app in a native shell using Turbo Native! Yay!

![Turbo Chirper on Turbo Native](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-turbo-chirper-native-running.png)

As of right now, mobile users have access to all the features exactly the way it works on mobile. As long as we build our features with a mobile first mentality using responsive UIs, we should be good most of the time. However, as of right now, you may notice our app is a little weird to use on mobile. Let's tweak our app so it looks better.

Let's hide the top-level action bar and only leave the right below it. Open the layout file in "res -> values -> themes" and make it inherit from the `NoActionBar` theme:

```xml
<resources xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools">
    <!-- Fix the parent: -->
    <style name="Theme.TurboChirperNative" parent="Theme.MaterialComponents.DayNight.NoActionBar">
        <!-- ... -->
    </style>
</resources>
```

Then, change add the new indigo colors to the `colors.xml` file in "res -> values -> colors.xml":

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<resources>
    <color name="indigo_500">#6366f1</color>
    <color name="indigo_700">#4338ca</color>
    <color name="purple_200">#FFBB86FC</color>
    <color name="purple_500">#FF6200EE</color>
    <color name="purple_700">#FF3700B3</color>
    <color name="teal_200">#FF03DAC5</color>
    <color name="teal_700">#FF018786</color>
    <color name="black">#FF000000</color>
    <color name="white">#FFFFFFFF</color>
</resources>
```

Now, it looks a little better. If you try to login, you should see the app looks exactly like you'd expect: it's a web responsive version of the Turbo Chirper app we built on the previous module.

![App Running Login Screen](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-app-running-login-screen.png)

![App Running Chirps Home](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-app-running-chirps-home.png)

There are a bunch of things we can improve here. Some of the interactions we built for the web don't really make sense in a mobile UX point-of-view. For instance:

* Adding a Chirp inline. Or editing a Chirp inline. These features would usually be done in a native modal screen instead of showing the forms inline
* We're currently showing the web navbar at the top of the page, but that's not that useful inside the mobile app (it's still useful for users visiting our web app from mobile device's browsers), as menu bars and dropdowns like that kind of breaks the illusion of native screens. Same goes for the edit/delete Chirp dropdown
* Right now we're only authenticating users inside the WebView using Cookies. However, it's not uncommon to need a fully native screen here and there to enhance the mobile experience. For that, we would need to setup some API routes and handle authentication

And we're gonna solve all that!

Commit message:

Fix links and rename Turbo Native and Hotwire Native

source/_bootcamp/native-setup.md, after:

---
extends: _layouts.bootcamp
title: Hotwire Native Installation
description: Hotwire Native Installation
order: 9
---

# *08.* Hotwire Native Android Setup

Hotwire offers mobile native adapters to help building high-fidelity hybrid apps with native navigation and a single shared web view.

You'll need a little bit of mobile development knowledge, specifically for Android and Kotlin. Not that much, though, because to be honest I'm no mobile dev expert myself.

This guide isn't about "the best way to build Hotwire Native apps". The idea is just to show you what's possible and how it integrates with Turbo.js and Turbo Laravel.

We're gonna focus on the [Hotwire Native for Android](https://github.com/hotwired/hotwire-native-android/) lib. I feel like [Hotwire Native for iOS](https://github.com/hotwired/hotwire-native-ios/) has a lot more attention, so I want to focus on Android for a bit. It's also the platform I am more familiar with, to be honest.

In Android development, each screen used to be its own Activity, but that has changed over the years and now the "Single Activity" approach seems to be the way to go. Watch this talk called ["Single activity: why, when, and how"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2k8x8V77CrU). In short, we're gonna have a single activity and each screen will be represented by a Fragment and we'll use Google's [Navigation component library](https://developer.android.com/guide/navigation) to decide which fragment to present.

Head over to the [Overview section in the docs for Hotwire Native](https://native.hotwired.dev/overview/how-it-works).

Let's setup the Android app.

## Setting Up The Local Development

To get started, you will need Java, Kotlin, and Android Studio installed locally. We're not gonna cover installing those things, but you should be able to find many resources on that.

I'm using ASDF, so here's some links:

* ASDF itself: https://asdf-vm.com/
* ASDF Java: https://github.com/halcyon/asdf-java
* ASDF Kotlin: https://github.com/asdf-community/asdf-kotlin
* Android Studio: https://developer.android.com/studio

Get those installed first, and then we'll create the project.

## Setting Up The Project

When creating the project, make sure you choose the "Empty Activity" option.

![Empty Compose Activity](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-empty-activity.png)

On the next screen, make sure you choose the "API 24" as that's required by the Hotwire Native adapter.

![API 24](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-api-24.png)

Next, you're going to need to create a [Virtual Device](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/managing-avds), next to the "run" icon (the green right-arrow in toolbar at the top), there's a dropdown with the "Device Manager" option. Click on it. In the sidebar that opens, click on the "Create Device" option. Choose whatever device you want to emulate, I'll go with a Pixel 2.

![Choose Device](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-choose-device.png)

For the System image, I'm choose API level 30, which is Android R.

![System Image](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-system-image.png)

Now, you should see the option to run the app on the device emulator! Pressing on that, you should the app is running!

![App running](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-running-app.png)

Let's install Hotwire Native.

## Installing Hotwire Native

Now, let's add the Turbo lib. On the left sidebar, there's a "Gradle Scripts" section dropdown. Open it. In there, you should see 2 files named `build.gradle`, one for the project and one for the module. Open the module one. On it, scroll to the bottom where your dependencies are listed and add the Hotwire Native one:

```
dependencies {
    def lifecycle_version = '2.5.1' // Add this

    implementation 'androidx.core:core-ktx:1.9.0'
    implementation 'androidx.appcompat:appcompat:1.5.1'
    implementation 'com.google.android.material:material:1.6.1'
    implementation 'androidx.constraintlayout:constraintlayout:2.1.4'

    // Add this section:
    implementation 'dev.hotwire:turbo:7.0.0-rc12'
    implementation "androidx.lifecycle:lifecycle-livedata-ktx:$lifecycle_version"
    implementation "androidx.lifecycle:lifecycle-viewmodel-ktx:$lifecycle_version"
    implementation "androidx.lifecycle:lifecycle-runtime-ktx:$lifecycle_version"

    testImplementation 'junit:junit:4.13.2'
    androidTestImplementation 'androidx.test.ext:junit:1.1.3'
    androidTestImplementation 'androidx.test.espresso:espresso-core:3.4.0'
}
```

Then, press on "Sync now" at the top of the file. Once that's done, you should have Turbo installed.

![Add Turbo](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-add-turbo.png)

## Configuring Hotwire Native

So far, we have only added Hotwire Native to the project, but we're not using it yet. Let's configure it.

We're following the official [Quick Start guide](https://native.hotwired.dev/android/getting-started) here.

Let's start by creating our `NavHostFragment`, which is a component available in Android Jetpack that provides a contained navigation area where our fragments will appear.

Before we start, let's create a `util` package where we're going to have a Constants Kotlin file. To do that, right-click on the root package and choosing the "New > Package" option. Then create the "util" package.

Inside of it, create the `Constants.kt` file with the following contents:

```js
package com.example.turbochirpernative.util

const val BASE_URL = "http://10.0.2.2"
const val CHIRPS_HOME_URL = "$BASE_URL/chirps"
```

We need to use something [10.0.2.2 instead of localhost](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator-networking) here or something like [Expose](https://expose.dev/) to get a remote URL that points to your app running locally.

Let's now create a package in our app called "main":

![The main package](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-main-package.png)

Now, create a Kotlin class called `MainSessionNavHostFragment`. This class will extend the `TurboSessionNavHostFragment` class that ships with Turbo, feel free to copy the body of the class (make sure the imports are correct and the package name too):

```kotlin
package com.example.turbochirpernative.main

import android.webkit.WebView
import androidx.appcompat.app.AppCompatActivity
import androidx.fragment.app.Fragment
import com.example.turbochirpernative.util.CHIRPS_HOME_URL
import dev.hotwire.turbo.BuildConfig
import dev.hotwire.turbo.config.TurboPathConfiguration
import dev.hotwire.turbo.session.TurboSessionNavHostFragment
import kotlin.reflect.KClass

class MainSessionNavHostFragment : TurboSessionNavHostFragment() {
    override val sessionName = "main"

    override val startLocation = CHIRPS_HOME_URL

    override val registeredActivities: List<KClass<out AppCompatActivity>>
        get() = listOf()

    override val registeredFragments: List<KClass<out Fragment>>
        get() = listOf(
            //
        )

    override val pathConfigurationLocation: TurboPathConfiguration.Location
        get() = TurboPathConfiguration.Location(
            assetFilePath = "json/configuration.json",
        )

    override fun onSessionCreated() {
        super.onSessionCreated()
        session.webView.settings.userAgentString = customUserAgent(session.webView)

        if (BuildConfig.DEBUG) {
            session.setDebugLoggingEnabled(true)
            WebView.setWebContentsDebuggingEnabled(true)
        }
    }

    private fun customUserAgent(webView: WebView): String {
        return "Hotwire Native Android ${webView.settings.userAgentString}"
    }
}
```

There's a lot going on here, and this code doesn't even work yet. Let's go piece by piece.

1. The `startLocation` property should point to your app's default home page. In our case, it's the `/chirps` page. It could be the `/dashboard`, but we don't have anything there yet;
2. The `registeredActivities` method is only used when we have more than one activity in our app, which isn't our case, so we return an empty list;
3. The `registeredFragments` method will return a list of all fragments in our app to build the navigation graph. It's currently empty, but we'll use it in a bit;
4. The `pathConfigurationLocation` returns the location to the path configuration JSON files. This file will have some app specific configurations which can be used for things like feature toggles, but it's also going to have the navigation configuration where we're going to specify which fragments will be used based on the URL pattern (more on that later). Our app should must ship with a default `configuration.json` file, but we could also provide a remote URL for the file that we could control dynamically from our backend server;
5. We're also configuring the WebView to use the `Hotwire Native Android` User Agent header so we can detect in the backend that the request is coming from a Hotwire Native client (see more [here](/docs/hotwire-native))

Okay, now let's create our `configuration.json` file. Right-click on the project root named "app" and choose "New > Directory", then call it "assets/json". Then, right-click on the `json` directory we just created, and add a new file called `configuration.json` with the following contents:

![Assets directory](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-assets-folder.png)

```json
{
  "settings": {
    "screenshots_enabled": true
  },
  "rules": [
    {
      "patterns": [
        ".*"
      ],
      "properties": {
        "context": "default",
        "uri": "turbo://fragment/web",
        "pull_to_refresh_enabled": true
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

We only have one rule defined in this file right now. This is the "catch-all" rule, which will be applied to every navigation started by Turbo. By default, it will render the fragment configured as the `turbo://fragment/web` URI. Let's create that fragment and register it in our `MainSessionNavHostFragment`.

To create the fragment, let's first create a "features" package and then a "web" package inside of it. The "features" package will be where we keep our fragments and we can create sub packages for each subsystem we may have. For now, we only have one which we'll call "web".

Inside of the `features.web` package, create a Kotlin class named `WebFragment` with the following contents:

```kotlin
package com.example.turbochirpernative.features.web

import dev.hotwire.turbo.fragments.TurboWebFragment
import dev.hotwire.turbo.nav.TurboNavGraphDestination

@TurboNavGraphDestination(uri = "turbo://fragment/web")
class WebFragment: TurboWebFragment() {
}
```

Notice that we're annotating this class as the `turbo://fragment/web` URI using the `TurboNavGraphDestination` annotation. This matches our URI config for the catch-all rule in our `configuration.json` file.

Now, let's register this fragment in the `MainSessionNavHostFragment`:

```kotlin
package com.example.turbochirpernative.main

// ...

class MainSessionNavHostFragment : TurboSessionNavHostFragment() {
    override val registeredFragments: List<KClass<out Fragment>>
        get() = listOf(
            WebFragment::class // Add this
        )

    // ...
}
```

Next, we need to update our `MainActivity` to use the `MainSessionNavHostFragment` we have just created. But before we do that, let's do a refactor and also move it to the "main" package. You may have to do it twice for the refactoring to take effect.

![Move main activity to the main package](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-refactor-main-activity.png)

This activity class is referenced in the `AndroidManifest.xml` file, make sure you update the reference to also use the `.main` package. You can edit the manifest by clicking on the "app/manifests" section on your left sidebar. Since we're changing the manifest, let's also make sure we add the `INTERNET` permission to our app, otherwise we won't be able to make network requests.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools">

    <!-- Add this: -->
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />

    <application
        android:allowBackup="true"
        android:dataExtractionRules="@xml/data_extraction_rules"
        android:fullBackupContent="@xml/backup_rules"
        android:icon="@mipmap/ic_launcher"
        android:label="@string/app_name"
        android:roundIcon="@mipmap/ic_launcher_round"
        android:supportsRtl="true"
        android:theme="@style/Theme.TurboChirperNative"
        tools:targetApi="31"
        android:usesCleartextTraffic="true"> <!-- Allow "clear text" -->

        <activity
            android:name=".main.MainActivity"
            android:exported="true"
            android:label="@string/app_name"
            android:theme="@style/Theme.TurboChirperNative">

            <intent-filter>
                <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />

                <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
            </intent-filter>

            <meta-data
                android:name="android.app.lib_name"
                android:value="" />
        </activity>
    </application>
</manifest>
```

Now, let's update our `activity_main.xml` layout file. Update it to match this content:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<androidx.constraintlayout.widget.ConstraintLayout
    xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="match_parent">

    <androidx.fragment.app.FragmentContainerView
        android:id="@+id/main_nav_host"
        android:name="com.example.turbochirpernative.main.MainSessionNavHostFragment"
        android:layout_width="match_parent"
        android:layout_height="match_parent"
        app:defaultNavHost="false" />

</androidx.constraintlayout.widget.ConstraintLayout>
```

Make sure the `android:name` property points to the full package namespace of your `MainSessionNavHostFragment`.

Next, update the `MainActivity` to match this:

```kotlin
package com.example.turbochirpernative.main

import android.os.Bundle
import com.example.turbochirpernative.R
import androidx.appcompat.app.AppCompatActivity
import dev.hotwire.turbo.activities.TurboActivity
import dev.hotwire.turbo.delegates.TurboActivityDelegate

class MainActivity : AppCompatActivity(), TurboActivity {
    override lateinit var delegate: TurboActivityDelegate

    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)
        setContentView(R.layout.activity_main)

        delegate = TurboActivityDelegate(this, R.id.main_nav_host)
    }
}
```

Now, if you run the app, you should see that we have successfully wrapped our web app in a native shell using Hotwire Native! Yay!

![Turbo Chirper on Hotwire Native](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-turbo-chirper-native-running.png)

As of right now, mobile users have access to all the features exactly the way it works on mobile. As long as we build our features with a mobile first mentality using responsive UIs, we should be good most of the time. However, as of right now, you may notice our app is a little weird to use on mobile. Let's tweak our app so it looks better.

Let's hide the top-level action bar and only leave the right below it. Open the layout file in "res -> values -> themes" and make it inherit from the `NoActionBar` theme:

```xml
<resources xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools">
    <!-- Fix the parent: -->
    <style name="Theme.TurboChirperNative" parent="Theme.MaterialComponents.DayNight.NoActionBar">
        <!-- ... -->
    </style>
</resources>
```

Then, change add the new indigo colors to the `colors.xml` file in "res -> values -> colors.xml":

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<resources>
    <color name="indigo_500">#6366f1</color>
    <color name="indigo_700">#4338ca</color>
    <color name="purple_200">#FFBB86FC</color>
    <color name="purple_500">#FF6200EE</color>
    <color name="purple_700">#FF3700B3</color>
    <color name="teal_200">#FF03DAC5</color>
    <color name="teal_700">#FF018786</color>
    <color name="black">#FF000000</color>
    <color name="white">#FFFFFFFF</color>
</resources>
```

Now, it looks a little better. If you try to login, you should see the app looks exactly like you'd expect: it's a web responsive version of the Turbo Chirper app we built on the previous module.

![App Running Login Screen](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-app-running-login-screen.png)

![App Running Chirps Home](/assets/images/bootcamp/native/setup-app-running-chirps-home.png)

There are a bunch of things we can improve here. Some of the interactions we built for the web don't really make sense in a mobile UX point-of-view. For instance:

* Adding a Chirp inline. Or editing a Chirp inline. These features would usually be done in a native modal screen instead of showing the forms inline
* We're currently showing the web navbar at the top of the page, but that's not that useful inside the mobile app (it's still useful for users visiting our web app from mobile device's browsers), as menu bars and dropdowns like that kind of breaks the illusion of native screens. Same goes for the edit/delete Chirp dropdown
* Right now we're only authenticating users inside the WebView using Cookies. However, it's not uncommon to need a fully native screen here and there to enhance the mobile experience. For that, we would need to setup some API routes and handle authentication

And we're gonna solve all that!
